third - That's How I Roll Dice

-- A dice roller for roleplaying nerds, by Brendan Jurd

== Premise ==

Rolling dice is annoying.  First you need to have the right dice with you.
Then, when the time comes to make a roll, you need to extract the correct
quantity and variety of dice from the assortment scattered around the room.
After rolling (and picking up those dice which fell on the floor, and
re-rolling them) you need to perform some tedious mental arithmetic.

Further, the kinds of dice you can use are constrained by physical attributes;
to produce fair outcomes a die must be possible to construct using some
face-uniform solid.

Faced with these obstacles, I did the same thing I do in pretty much every
other situation in life.  I wrote a program.

== Usage ==

Each of the icons running down the middle of the application represents a
different die, with the number of sides shown on the icon.  The input box next
to the die selects how many of that die you want to roll.

Directly underneath the dice is the custom die.  Want to roll a d17 or a d1000?
No problem.  Just set the number of sides you want the die to have, and how
many of them you want to roll.

Underneath the custom die are the multiplier (x) and modifier (+) inputs.
After your dice are rolled, the total is multiplied by the multiplier and then
the modifier is added (or subtracted, if it is negative).

When you've set things up to your liking, hit the "Roll" button.  The results
of your roll will be shown in the results box to the right, including each
individual dice roll and the total result after applying modifiers.

You can repeatedly roll the same configuration by simply hitting "Roll" again.

If you are sick of your current configuration and want to start again from
scratch, that's what the "Reset" button is for.

== Presets ==

If you find yourself rolling a particular configuration of dice often, you
might want to save it as a preset.  Set up the configuration as if you were
going to roll it, and then hit the Add Preset (+) button underneath the Presets
list.  This will save your current configuration as a new preset.

Once you've saved a preset you can load its configuration by clicking on it
once, and roll it by double-clicking.

== Profiles ==

Presets are saved under a profile.  You can maintain several separate profiles,
so you don't need to worry about getting your wizard's attack roll confused
with your rogue's initiative.  Just set up a profile for each of your
characters.

== Requirements ==

You'll need a Linux or Windows system with PyGTK installed.  If you don't have
PyGTK and you're not familiar with how to get it, then very probably the
easiest way to install it is to install the GIMP, which is something you want
to do anyway.

== Installation (Linux) ==

Extract the distribution package, cd into the directory and then type `make
install` as root.

Execute the application by running `/usr/local/bin/third.py`

== Installation (Windows) ==

Extract the distribution package into whatever location makes you happy, but I
would recommend C:\Program Files\third.

Execute the application by running third.py in whatever location you extracted
it.

== Uninstallation ==

Just delete the installed files.  On Linux these are located at
/usr/local/bin/third.py, /usr/local/share/third and /usr/local/share/doc/third.
On Windows, it's the directory you extracted the package to.

== Distribution ==

You are free to download, use and redistribute third for whatever purpose and
in whatever manner pleases you, as long as you include this README file and
don't try to take the credit for writing it.  The usual disclaimers about
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose apply.
